Germany. A winter fairy tale

The following poem I wrote in this year's month of January to
Paris, and the free air of the place blew into some stanzas far more
sharper than I would have liked. I did not refrain
to soften and cut out what seemed incompatible with the German climate.
incompatible with the German climate. Nevertheless, when I sent the manuscript to my publisher in
to my publisher in Hamburg in the month of March, I was still confronted with many
many doubts were still being considered. I had to face the
fatal business of reworking, and it may well have happened that the serious
that the serious tones were more than necessary muffled or replaced by the
or were even too cheerfully over-toned by the bells of humor.
I have torn off the fig leaves of some naked thoughts in my hasty displeasure.
and I may have hurt prissy ears in my hasty displeasure.
hurt. I am sorry, but I console myself with the consciousness
that greater authors have been guilty of similar offenses.
I do not want to mention Aristophanes at all for such whitewashing,
for he was a blind pagan, and his audience in Athens, though having enjoyed
had enjoyed a classical education, but knew little of morality.
I could refer much better to Cervantes and Molière;
and the former wrote for the high nobility of both Castile, the latter
for the great king and the great court of Versailles! Alas, I
forget that we live in a very bourgeois age, and I foresee
unfortunately foresee that many daughters of educated classes on the Spree, if not on the
on the Spree, if not on the Alster, will turn up their more or less
bent little noses at my poor poem! But what I foresee with even greater
with even greater sorrow is the clamor of those Pharisees of the
nationality, which now go hand in hand with the antipathies of the governments.
hand in hand with the antipathies of the governments, also enjoy the full love and esteem of the censorship
and are able to set the tone in the daily press where it is necessary to
opponents who are also the opponents of their highest rulers.
of their sovereigns. We are armed in our hearts against the displeasure
of these heroic lackeys in black-red-gold livery. I can already hear
their beer voices: "You even blaspheme our colors, despiser of the fatherland
of the fatherland, friend of the French, to whom you want to cede the free Rhine
the free Rhine!" Calm down. I will respect and honor your colors
honor your colors when they deserve it, when they are no longer an idle or servile
servile gimmick. Plant the black-red-gold flag on the height
the height of German thought, make it the standard of free humanity, and I will
humanity, and I will give my best heart blood for it.
Calm down, I love the Fatherland as much as you do. Because of
I spent thirteen years of my life in exile, and it is for this love
and it is because of this love that I am returning to exile, perhaps forever.
exile, perhaps forever, at any rate without blubbering or making a crooked
or making a sour-faced face. I am the friend of the French, as
I am the friend of all people, if they are reasonable and good,
and because I myself am not so stupid or so bad that I should wish
should wish that my Germans and the French, the two
the two chosen peoples of humanity, should break their necks for the good of
of England and Russia and to the gloating of all the Junkers and clergymen
of this globe. Be calm, I will never cede the Rhine to the French.
the Rhine to the French, if only for the very simple reason: because the
Rhine belongs to me. Yes, it belongs to me by inalienable birthright,
I am an even freer son of the free Rhine, on its banks
my cradle stood on its banks, and I do not see at all why the Rhine
should belong to anyone other than the children of the country. Alsace and
and Lorraine to the German empire as easily as you do, of course.
German empire as easily as you do, for the people of those lands are firmly attached to
to France because of the rights they have gained through the French
the French revolution of the state, because of those laws of equality and free
institutions, which are very agreeable to the bourgeois mind, but nevertheless
yet leave much to be desired by the stomach of the great multitude.
However, the Alsatians and the Lorraine people will rejoin
Germany, if we complete what the French have begun, if we overtake these
have begun, when we surpass them in deed, as we have already done in thought.
already done in thought, if we rise up to the last conclusions of the same
of the same, if we take the servitude to its last
the last nook and cranny of heaven, if we destroy the God who dwells on
God who dwells in man on earth, if we rescue him from his humiliation, if we become the
become the redeemers of God, if we save the poor people who have died of happiness and the
and the despised genius and the disgraced beauty to their dignity again, as our great masters
dignity, as our great masters have said and sung and as
we will, we, the disciples - yes, not merely Alsace and Lorraine,
but the whole of France will then fall to us, the whole of Europe, the
whole world - the whole world will become German! From this mission
and universal rule of Germany
